What I plan on doing for my final project is to look at several events that have
caused a diaspora of people to flee their country. I would like to analyze the
number of people as well as where these people went to once they became refugees.
My question will be something along the lines of "which causes more refugees,
political instability or conflict and war.  I can find my data here at

https://www.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=fd2b56ac31ea45fea59a6d4cd86c7cce

I would like to incorporate Moran's I as well as a 3-d map, and a hexagonal grid
analysis. Something that we haven't used in class, but something I would like to
use on the project, is the use of large arrows to visually represent where the
migrants are fleeing to. The number of migrants leaving a country will be
displayed by color, but where they are going will be a separate issue. I choose
arrows because it's an easy way to visually show the reader in a concise way
where the migrants are fleeing to. I feel as though this is more involved than
the lab, because projects like this can have farther reaching implications,
and could actually change people's lives. Something that I learned when doing
preliminary research and something that surprised me greatly, was the sheer
number of people fleeing, as well as how dispersed they ended up being. It was
my assumption that 90% of them were on similar paths, but that couldn't be
farther from the truth.

I started this project by looking at the Syrian Refugee Crisis. I found data on
the number of people leaving, as well as where these people were crossing the
border and setting up camp. This data came from the website I previously
mentioned. I created two separate heatmaps of the crossings as
well as where the campsites are. On top of that I created a shapefile to show
where people that are refugees are going to. I found that  over 60% of refugees
ended up in countries that immediately bordered Syria, unsurprisingly. These
countries are Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan, and Iraq. Once I had the shapefile
showing where people were ending up, I created a base-map of the whole world,
displayed by a light gray. I also lightened the borders of the countries who
had less than 1000 refugee entries to focus attention to the countries that were
taking a lot of refugees. For this map I also created a hex-grid analysis. I did
this by going to MMQGIS and creating a grid layer. I selected relatively large
hexs as we are looking at the scale of the whole planet and anything smaller
would've taken this computer ages to create. Once that was created I needed to
go to Vector-Analysis tool-Count points in polygon, in order to fill in the
hexagons. At the end I choose to label the countries where more than 1000
people ended up.

For my second map I looked at the similar, but still different, Afghani Refugee
Crisis. I used the same base-map for this one as in the previous map. I obviously
changed the numbers for the amount of people leaving, but left everything else
constant. Similarly to the Syrian crisis, many of the people who left ended up
in the countries and provinces that border the country they left from. These
include Pakistan, Iran, and Tajikistan, with India being included on there, but
technically not bordering Afghanistan. For this map I choose to add an elevation
map underneath the visible data. In order to do this I needed to download world
elevation data, that I found at ASTER website. Once I had the data I added it
to my map and created a hill-shade shapefile which would help give me a 3-d look.
From there I changed the style of the original elevation model in order to make
elevation features stand out. I then made the original shapefile showing where
people were going more transparent so the reader could see the elevation under
the readable data.

My last map focused on the South Sudanese Refugee Crisis, which was very distinct
from the other two crisis. I did a similar process of bringing in the world
shapefile, and then entering the data for where people ended up. In this map,
many still ended up in countries immediately surrounding South Sudan, but almost
no expansion elsewhere. The only places with received over 1000 refugees were in
the direct vicinity of South Sudan. These include Sudan, Ethiopia, Uganda, Kenya,
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Egypt. For this map I decided to finish
off this project by creating a drop shadow of the entire Earth. The data on the
number of people leaving South Sudan as well as Afghanistan came from the UNHCR,
which is the United Nations branch that deals specifically with refugees. I believe
all data came from the time period from 2012-2015.

I ended up running heatmaps, 3d elevation maps, drop shadows, and one hex grid
analysis of Syria.

In my maps red denotes a high number of people came to this country while green
denotes between 1000-30000 people ended up there. For the elevation maps black is
high elevation an white is low elevation. For the heatmap blue represents a high
density of migrants and red represents fewer migrants.

My findings were interesting but not unexpected. For all three most of the people
who fled ended up in neighboring countries. This makes sense as most are travelling
by foot, at first, and this means that many people will only be able to get so
far before becoming exhausted. I was shocked by the sheer number of people who
stayed in Turkey, or Pakistan for example. Both individually had more than 2
million displaced people. Afghanistan and Syria also saw major immigration to
Europe in countries such as Germany and England. Some refugees also ended up in
North and South America as well as Russia. Oddly enough South Sudan did not have
any significant immigration to anywhere outside of Africa. (Significant = x>1000)
Even within Africa refugees only went within a small area. the only country not
bordering South Sudan to receive refugees was Egypt.
